# CTCR Deep Learning - Feedforward Neural Network Analysis for Continuum Robots
Analysis of Feedforward Neural Networks (FNNs) on the first publicly available Concentric Tube Continuum Robotics (CTCR) dataset. This project explores preprocessing techniques, loss functions, activation functions, batch sizes, and architectures, comparing their performance on translational and rotational error metrics. Results highlight which FNN setups work best and demonstrate the potential of deep learning for continuum robotics.

In the world of continuum robotics, physics-based modeling has developed significantly. Physics-based models are able to accurately define how each section of the robot should position and orient itself to achieve a desired end effector position and orientation. With physics-based models, they serve as highly advanced estimators of position and orientation. There is a point at which it becomes increasingly more difficult to improve upon the accuracy of these models, paving the way for new approaches. With the rise of deep learning accessibility in recent years, it is intriguing to see how well deep learning models could be applied to continuum robotics. This paper provides an analysis of Feedforward Neural Networks based on the first publicly available concentric tube continuum robotic (CTCR) dataset released by the Continuum Robotics Laboratory in Toronto, Canada. The work provides a comprehensive overview, through the analysis of FNN’s, for how different preprocessing techniques, loss functions, activation functions, batch size changes, and overall architecture behave with this dataset. Methods for comparison include measurements of translational and rotational error, as well as how well the given model’s Cartesian and Quaternion representative predictions stay within a given margin of error. The paper aims to provide the CTCR and the rest of the continuum robotic community with not only what types of FNN architecture and metrics do and don’t work well with the dataset, but also prove that deep learning has a promising future in continuum robotics.

